Character's live in the outskirts of Kelsp and are frequently given trouble by the men of Tyron Relnt, leader of the neighboring town of Pelto. The larger town feels that it rightfully governs both itself and Kelsp and often sends men to collect "taxes" that are owed to the government. This has been going on for years but the dispute is considered small enough that the governor has not gotten involved.

The character's are working outside when a young girl (Yenn), maybe 12 cycles old, comes running up huffing and puffing about a coming storm and that they need to get to the great hall for safety, she also mentions that she saw the two men that beat up old man Riccard last week and took his day's catch as back taxes to Relnt coming their way.

She has two more houses to go warn and worries there isn't time before the storm hits. The Yorn family (denja) need are likely all out in their orchard gathering fruit and weren't at home and the widow Eirn who lives alone in the hills. She asks if the players can help with the warnings.

The players end up either at the great hall or out in the storm. At the great hall Thissel is knifed and murdered and a hooded sapeen man flees into the storm; the players see him flee either from in the safety of the hall or as they approach it.

If the players chase the man they'll loose him but he either drops something identifying or is wounded and they can investigate who he was. They'll discover his identity as Ryn, a farmer living outside of Pelto. When the players confront Ryn they'll have to fight him (he won't willingly go with them) but his son peeks out and shouts for them to stop. The son reveals that he had been kidnapped and only returned home the morning after the murder. The boy says he was blindfolded but heard his captors talking about taking back all of Kelsp for good.



If additional encounters are needed have Yenn be afraid to go to the great hall because some of the other kids pick on her. (social encounter, possible minor combat)

Have a sailor not from the island warn that one of the other ships in port is actually crewed by pirates and offers a high reward for proof of their crimes. (stealth mission)

Olard, priest of Clurses, claims divine vision that a great threat looms at wyvren point and failure to deal with it now will lead to disaster. (Have the point be secret home to a group of tor'joven that have been sent by Grail and tasked with secretly concurring the island as a puppet attack on Galabrain.)

Rumors that inland farm hands have been disappearing and no one knows why; some think they've been leaving the island on merchant ships others think something sinister is going on.
